welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's october 5th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've done in the last week and
plan to do the next week
and then discuss any open agenda items
um i of course haven't opened the heck
pad
um but i remember what i did last week
so
um i spend still a lot of time on the
rust multihash stuff and so the good
news is
it's finally merged so a tiny
multi-hash probably won't be a thing
anymore but it's now fully upstreamed
into rust multihash
and so the tiny multi-hash stuff was
kind of the work
of four or five months of coding and
prototyping and changing every
the apis almost every week but i think
now stable enough to get upstream
so this is done and it's not released
yet there's still
small items that i want to fix before
it's actually
released in order to make sure that we
don't break
any upstream users
on rust multihash
yeah and the other thing i did is i
wrote
an exploration report about ipld data
model numbers and ipld codecs
which got simpler than i expected when i
was writing it because like my head was
kind of like
blowing up because it was so full of
information about numbers
um and so
i i suggest that people are reading it
um
i think are interesting and so the um
long story short is that if you use the
data model
you should and you want to encode it
just use a single type for integer and
the signal type for floats
and for integers probably variance and
for floats it's ieee
754 and double precision
integers a floats um
yeah okay um that's
all i did next week i will spend some
time
on the wasm stuff and probably also like
on which is connected on deck
on simple deck and expect
that also more prs are coming
based on my exploration report
on existing specs all right and that's
all i have next on my list
is
assuming titling window managers don't
work well um it's wrong
um i
uh so i'd have just tied it up um dag pb
that's i don't know if that's published
yet michael but that's on you
um and just working with the latest js
multi-format stuff
and jack jason there's a pool requesting
for to get that
switched over to so that's all three
major
codecs that are in sync and ready to go
for the
multi-format stuff um
but i spent most of the week and go
being an unproductive go program
just i was mainly looking at this
question of
codex and writing codex for ipld prime
what that means
what it looks like what are the
implications of various decisions
mainly from the perspective of dag pb
because that's where my head's been
um
and it's struggling a little bit against
trying to
uh partly it's a go programming
model concern but just trying to get
things
properly uh separated out like the
temptation is to just
put everything in together and i just so
i'm so uncomfortable doing that
um just in programming in general and so
trying to find a model where pieces can
be separated out and that's been quite
difficult
[Music]
looking at other codec authoring things
with ipld prime
participating in the discussion about um
pretty printing and dag jason
and clean8 um
which i think uh eric will talk about
um and also uh so this week
uh yesterday was a public holiday so i
did
very little yesterday with which is my
monday um
and this this week's the last week of
the school holidays and um so i just
want to
warn that i'll be a little bit more
reduced hours than normal
um this week um but aside from that
nothing else i think this week i'll be
spending i'm continuing to spend time in
go
um so i don't expect
huge output um so
that's just been the nature of my time
in goes not been
super productive um but i'm i'm
narrowing in on some other codec
questions um looking at dag p dag jason
at the moment actually that's
been a bit of a distraction but doug
jason dag pb that's where i'm at
that's it for me thanks thanks so much
michael
yeah um yeah so last week as rod kind of
mentioned i mainly spent the time
um getting the block interface ported
over to the new multiformat stuff that
goes allah did
um and getting all his work merged
that's all in
um it's it's ready to go um i had a call
with godzilla today though it's going to
give me some more feedback and then i
think what's going to happen is we're
going to take that block class and we're
going to move it into multi-formats
because it'll actually be possible for
you to instantiate these now
without um having
like any of the registry or anything
like that on top of them
so we just want that to be like a very
simple type that you can pull out and
instantiate so that
something like rod's car file thing
doesn't even need to import
the block and the registry and all that
kind of stuff it can literally just be
like no or
this is all we're doing um
yeah so that's cool um
that's going well um
that'll land tomorrow i think um i think
that's from the family land
and i had something else oh yeah um we
have a new team management page i think
everybody's
on the call thought um but that's like
what i'm gonna use
at least through the end of the quarter
uh updating every time there's any
adjustment to what people are working on
um and why and um if we didn't capture a
lot of your maintenance burden
or we just don't capture it very well
like how you spend your time
uh please send up our request to that so
we can capture that more accurately
um it's it's better for some folks than
others because some people just have a
more difficult workload to
capture to be honest um and
uh yeah but anyway let's just improve
that
and then yeah reviews are happening lots
of management stuff is happening that
i've had to deal with so that was most
of my week
thanks next one is chris hey guys
um so i got the js crossing spike
completed
which was so mainly working through good
p2p
issues and my understanding of it so
that's good
yeah um and been continuing to log
various drafting spec issues
um and uh so there's some issues out
there all consolidated all
into an update of the specs later
probably once
i think they've all been found uh for a
certain iteration
um i did provide some support for the
final
browser retrieval guys on jslib p2p
stuff
i guess i'm an expert now um after my
two weeks of exposure to it but uh so
it's kind of nice to share some um and
then
wrote a design document on js craftsync
and
reviewed that with michael i made a few
tweaks so kind of have a path
forward now um so this week we'll
basically be implementing js draft sync
since i know
how the underneath other pinnings work
and i have a design in place
um so that's cool and i think that can
go pretty quickly
um it's not something i can refactor
from and
make sure it's still working and then i
have a presentation with rod
on wednesday about scalable ipld ipfs
data ingestion
for this filecoin master class so we
gotta
create some slides for that i guess
michael michael will be there too
um and so absolutely i thought it was
gonna be friday
so i just realized it was wednesday
today so i i crank on that pretty
quickly
so that is my day
thanks um next one is eric
hello so i've just done lots and lots of
communicating stuff this week
um we had a meeting between me
and uh will scott and bedan about
adls and where to go with them
um and so that discussion kind of came
in two big parts and trying to like
bridge towards the middle of
what we expect the interface of these
things to be from what we can understand
looking at things from the library
design side
and then getting lots of information
exchanged about like how a project
such as the state diff that looks at
filecoin data for example
might want to actually use the things
and i think fortunately those converge
without a lot of comment um we got lots
more detailed information for us in the
ipld team about what filecoin is doing
and some of the
the applicational semantics that drift
into you a little bit
um as well as a couple of advanced
layout stuff that
um is a little bit more interesting like
there's some recursive advanced layouts
in filecoin
um we're going to see how those go but
i'm hoping that those
aren't actually going to be interesting
they should just work naturally
in the ipld constructions we'll see
we'll see
um so we got some notes on the ground to
cover there and hopefully we'll just
keep
slowly rolling forward on that i'm
really curious how the implementation
side of things that mv dan is working on
is shaping up but he's not here so i
will not speak for that
um we have landed some new helpful tools
in the go ipld prime repo so there's now
a handy dandy function where you can
take
some arbitrary go structure and you can
hand it to the fluent.reflect method
and it will give you ipld data model
that roughly matches it's full of
magical reflection and do the right
thing type logic
but it probably does the right thing so
the purpose of this is basically to use
it in quick demos and like
provide an onboarding ramp it's not fast
it's not performing
but it does what you mean real fast so
hopefully it's good for
demos and stuff um
a bunch of internal communication stuff
i've started looking at simple dag but i
haven't published my notes on that yet
um i don't know will you haven't put any
notes in the share doc but if you want
to talk something about how state diff
is going i think that's been going
really well so i'd be interested in it
um yeah i don't know not not too much
there uh
there is a schema for all of the the one
actor state um along with a lot of the
other
on-chain things like messages and how
those go from chipsets to blocks to
messages and stuff
so there's this ipld thing there's an
evolving codec that gets a pretty
printed json
view of things that is more efficient
than
previously what we were having to do to
make things work which involved
multiple rounds of like interface
removing all types and munching things
which is a little icky
um so now it's a trick of getting that
used in various places that
want to work with this data and see it
in different places so
yeah and we are
making elephant usage of the golang
kojim
stuff in order to pull this off which is
really exciting um will's giving me lots
of small bugs to fix and chase down to
some of which i've gotten to
in reasonable time some of which need to
end up in a to-do list
um but by and large it's working and
like i think most of the big questions
we have are like
where did the adls fit into this now so
that's
exciting um
so the other big thing that consumed a
lot more
hours of my week than i expected
was i'm afraid that i lit the fuse on a
string encoding and escaping
question and just character sets and
then rod is making a
face where he's containing his laughter
and several people are shoot
yeah so that's a fun topic um
i tried to write a pretty print
tool and
i think that has gotten into the weeds
in ways that i'm not even going to
follow up on
but it opened the can of forms on string
escaping
and
we're really going to need to enhance
the quality and the detail
and the the clarity of the edges
of how we specify strings in the iplp
data model
but generally speaking it's come to my
attention that a bunch of string
escaping functions that i thought
were capable of handling anything easily
are actually not
common string escaping systems such as
json
are actually
really questionable out of the box
so we would like to define i'm going to
go on a whole rant for this it might
take a while
we would like it if strings could be
defined
as sequences of
8-bit bytes because this is a very
simple
clear definition it's not necessarily a
map world of rendering currently
but it's a clear definition it is
generally lossless it integrates with
lots of stuff okay
yeah i i so my first thought was what is
the difference between binary
then because like for me binary is eight
byte very little except for the
intention
that it should probably be printable but
i think it's important to yeah
you still have to segment the dream of
being printable from
that that's an implementation detail i
want to push off just a little bit
so defining strings as 8-bit bytes is
nice
because it is so clear and because
there exist other systems in the world
which are going to force us to deal with
this anyway
for example do you guys remember all the
discussions about
file names in the unix fsv2 draft specs
it got really hairy it turns out a bunch
of file systems out there
do not have very strict opinions on what
sequences of bytes can end up in a file
name even though we would normally
discuss this as a string
and this gets particularly impactful
when we then mash
this together with our definition of
maps in ipld
having string keys and for example
wanting to use large sharded maps like
hands which we want to use in a spec
like unicode v2
which still has a string keys
this all of these things are much much
much much
much much simpler and more composable if
we have this
definition of string as 8-bit byte
sequence
and a fair number of systems having no
trouble with this so like sebor strings
for example are instantaneously
compatible with this and have no
difficulties
they are the implementation of seaboard
bite parsing and c4 string parsing are
literally the same function they just
have a different parameter for am i
going to call those bytes or string at
the end
same bars so clearly it works for all of
the bytes
some other codecs are not so simple um
json does not support enough escaping
for this
because json only supports such escaping
as slash
r slash n these like super common
special case ones
and it supports slash u and then four
hex characters which is
unicode escaping which draws from
the unicode tables
not all bytes are valid unicode
sequences
it is therefore impossible in json
to be constrained to the slash u
escaping rules
and escape all possible sequences of
8-bit bytes
this is so very frustrating
i did not draw up examples on my screen
right now but i wrote some test case to
prove to myself that this is actually as
problematic as it is and i swear to you
there exists sequences of bytes which
you can describe in hex escapes which
you
cannot full stop translate to slash you
escapes
so this is something that we need to
talk about in our specs for ipld
and we probably should draw up some
recommended
workarounds or substitutes or just
generally how we
expect codecs to try to make this stuff
behave when they have difficulty
with 8-bit byte sequences
and regarding them losslessly there
might be some good solutions out there
there's a thing called utf clean 8
utf-8-c8 for short
which as far as i know is pioneered
entirely by the pearl community or at
least
all the docs that i've seen so far are
from them
and that appears to have a mechanism
which does
losslessly encode things
wrap up that rant before i get more
frustrated
talking about it again but it was fun to
discover these things this week
and we should talk about and specify
them more
i've come up with a new sort of rallying
cry that i want to orient some of these
discussions around by the way while
staring at this
normalization is mutation
i like it because i can chant it
repeatedly if i have to
in ipld we're worried a lot holistically
about
making sure things have
properties that favor convergence things
that make it natural to hash data and
get
reasonably consistent hashes out of them
these are things that make it nicer to
build content addressable systems
but normalization is mutation
for example if you force all strings to
be normalized to
for example utf-8
nfc normalization necessarily a
normalization like this means you
disregard whatever input you
got and whatever you were given and
you produce a new output normalization
is mutation
if we want to losslessly regard data
by which i mean take some data that has
been serialized
load it up perform a no-op operation on
it just for the sake of discussion
serialize it and be able to hash it
again perform this operation without
loss get the same cash
then we cannot mandate normalization
because normalization is mutation
i feel these standards in my opinion
should
recommend normalization but we cannot
require it
brand complete look where you want to
take the mic away from me
no it's just like like it depends like
because like if this data was serialized
at one point
and it already had the rule that it
needed to be normalized
you don't do don't mutate it because it
was already normalized
yeah but then you're energizing it has
to come from somewhere
but like like i i mean i totally
understand your point like
no no no i i think eric's right though
in that like
even when you even when it's lossless
you're still mutating it
right like when you're taking it from
one state to another you're
still mutating it even if it's lost if
it's a lossless mutation
um but it is a mutation it came from
because you're
lucky it's a no-op mutation maybe i
don't know
but in general be like yeah
normalization can happen to be no up but
in general you should fear lawfulness
normalization means that the domain of
your function
and the range of your function are not
the same
and that means you're in danger
yes so it's it it's a bit about this
this um like do you have a bijective
mapping between things kind of like
basically the same thing with
with numbers which is my expertise
it's the same thing about like do you if
you have different flow types do you
normalize to the smallest one or not
is kind of the same problem that you if
you do it everyone has to do it else you
get
different different hashes for the same
data
but yeah yeah so yeah i can see the
problem in there so i'm
i'm i'm excited to get on the next stage
from numbers into strings so
but i think i think the same framework
applies though which is that like
we do need to realize that like whenever
you serialize something you are mutating
it
like like that like you are it's just
you may have found a lossless mutation
and that's great and we should like try
to find all of the lossless mutations
but
like the these cases where we have hash
efficiency
are often because we don't have a
lossless mutation
right or they can be as peter has to hop
off soon just peter do you have anything
to share or say okay nope
not this time okay here's launching
filecoin
don't do a joke about that that's like
it's it it's supposed to be two weeks uh
low eight days
so you know it should be all good i read
in the news that it was in two weeks
i read it on the internet
okay
bye so let's see are there any
agenda items i can't see any so is there
anything else
people want to discuss
i think it's just a half an hour strings
now it's just
i i think i think i'm going to drop off
then
it's like i i have one more copy about
strings because i'm still not sure
like why like if we have the distinction
between strings
and bytes you don't need the distinction
between strings and bytes anymore
if strings are eight bit
um something no no but something that
the data model is supposed to help you
along with
is to find a way to losslessly do this
like the world's gone that was funny um
like that's the point of the day like we
need to if it's not gonna round trip
then we need to make it not part of the
data model if we can
right like we need to find or at least
like have some recommendations for
people to like have a way
to do this and round trip it properly
and like just saying it's
it's always it's just bytes now because
they're all eight bits like doesn't do
that because you're going to have data
that won't round trip through
through various uh string types
but basically if like for example the
the thing with the file names then just
say file names are bytes
and not strings because why should
phonemes be strings
we like presented things they're mostly
strings it's just that we cannot so
there's two places one is in
serialization
and the other is in representation but
that representation
also goes for in our own programming
languages
where we'd like to have a string object
and then when you put bytes into a
string they do funky things in different
languages
so we can't always just keep those bites
because then we sort of
we get we're entering esoteric land
where no one will use our stuff
well and also like we haven't actually
solved this problem for anybody because
like we know that what everybody's going
to do with the
name is converted to a string that's
what you do with the file name
so like if it's not going to round trip
properly
through their application stack when
they're doing this conversion then we we
still have the same problem we just
pushed it up the stack right
if
i don't think we want to be in the
business of going further down like this
this
this this this point just like the
numbers thing raises questions about
what is our role and where is our stack
like where is our position in the stack
and what is it that we should be doing
within that
like we could spend a long time on this
what is the
where's the point of diminishing returns
where we say okay
this is good enough i don't know
my opinions about this are mostly formed
out of empirically
what
what [ __ ] with me the least and the
answer to that is actually really simple
it is
regard strings as bytes and try to
render them
that combination is actually really
efficient it's what seaboard does
and it works and people seem to like it
because most of the time
you say string in siebel when you mean
string when you expect it to be rendered
and when you know you don't mean string
and you mean binary bytes you say bytes
and like maybe you expect that it won't
be rendered so much
and so all the seaborg pretty printers
respect those two things and highlight
them appropriately and it sort of does
what you mean as a human
and everybody's happy and like
i think that's basically just exactly
the thing that we should follow because
it
works so um as
as normally like often the discussions
are out are towards go i've started a
discussion around rust so
basically the problem will be if you do
it this way the things
won't be strings and rust like you just
can't use those things
like rust and rust strings are strictly
unicode
things
um file names are special the following
is a path and they basically do weird
drinks
tricks to basically make it work across
platforms but they're not strings
for this reason because like like
finance obviously are not fully
unicode so basically in rust you
wouldn't be able to use the
native string type if we define
the string as being
isn't it isn't this isn't this what that
thing gives us that you found
eric where you you actually do have a
conversion
that will lost losslessly hold on to
that
utf-8 does give
a way to place arbitrary bites
in things that are regarded as etf8
strings
so would in the case rust i would also
seriously consider i'm not super
familiar with this but i would consider
using the rust whatever type it is that
they use for file names
use that as our string it sounds like
it's correct
oh they using the the wtf8
encoding
i'm gonna have to read about what russ
does with this yes so it's a
wtf8 encoding it is a good name
um because it basically does
yeah it does strange things so yeah you
can
do that but it's not so it's not so it
doesn't support
i think arbitrary bytes
but um anyway yeah there
there's a long like there's a good like
every there's good
documentation about what they do with
the file name of things
and they have called os stir
and can we use that
just just search for wtf8
encoding or something yeah this should
bring it up
i just posted a link like there's a link
in the zoom chat now to
to the space i think this is the
encoding they actually settled on for
fun names um yeah so
so coming back to so if we use so i
haven't
looked really into the a unique code
what is it called like the c8 stuff um
utfc8
um i haven't looked into it but if it
means that it it probably round trips to
or it can be encoded as a proper unicode
string then of course you could use the
rust string type on it
so is it if it's in the same correctly
so if you don't have any weird bytes in
it
it will still be like a normal string
kind of thing
and if it has some whatever you will
have those like
yeah those weird characters in but it
would still be fine
yeah then it's of course fine because
like as long as like
like what i basically don't want is like
i get a string from the ip data model
try to convert it to a string and it
will panic because like
it's not duty of eight but as long as
like it's
as long as it's like valid utf-8 stuff
then that's totally fine i think
i would say it seems unfortunate to me
if
a data model in memory has to use this
i've been hoping that it's something
that we can use in
codex that have restrictions
but we'll
we'll see it's
somewhat surprising to me that rust
would have made a choice like this i've
heard people complaining about rust and
file systems and i guess now i know why
yeah um
cool so rusty is our weak point here
that's really fascinating
it's it well hold on rust is one of the
one of the reasons why rust has this is
to deal with javascript's [ __ ] up
strings
because javascript's strings are a
potentially ill-formed utf-16
and so literally like yeah you can just
you can just jam like arbitrary bytes
into them
and yeah yeah like we used to do that in
node like that was how we had binary
node before buffers
isn't isn't that weird it was just
terrible
isn't
also the way that python 3 does it
no no
there's a python 3 is really strict
about strings and it
is it all utf-8 now or all you see yes
i think so it's awesome it's all some
kind of it's one of the unicodes but
it's all no no it's it's python 2 that
had all this variation
python 3 actually like was very strict
about like
everything as utf-8 now including the
the language
itself interprets like string data as
python
it's only yes but but this means that
also
then the they have the distinction
between so in basically the problem
between python 2 and python 3
is or like a big differences in strings
that
in python 3 they are proper
unicode strings and you have a
distinction between unicodes strings and
bytes
this is the same thing as you have bytes
and you have strings
and this is why i think we're talking
about like making
i'm not sure like if if you're talking
about this or not that if we want to go
into the direction of
that our strings are more than unicode
more than due to 8 sorry our strings are
more than utf-8
things i think the problem is that they
already are
because because we're already seeing
uses where they are like far coin
and so we've we've left it open
[Music]
and you know because because we've not
been willing to draw a line on this
stuff
maybe we should maybe we shouldn't but
because people are going to push that
then our strings are essentially bytes
that can be printed
uh so we have we have something they
don't round trip
and they don't round trip like that's
the issue like when you when you do this
they don't round trip
and like i think what eric is saying is
that like there is a utility that we
could put in the encoder
decoder that just like handles that and
always prints something that is going to
round through properly
when when people are doing these weird
things with their string types think
we're going to need to generate a lot of
documentation about this
in in textual form in the specs repo
and it's going to have to cover a lot of
directions we're going to have to say
what we want strings to be in the data
model we're going to have to say
where codecs force us to compromise and
what encoding
escaping schemes we use when they do so
mind you escaping is distinct from
normalization
escaping is not necessarily mutation um
we're going to have to say when that
breaks down and have library author
recommendations
um and in as much as we
regard
implementation details of various
languages
we're going to have to not just say what
those languages say they do
i'm afraid we're going to have to look
at what they act
because that is not always entirely
one-to-one
so it seems to me um and the details
there
really really matter like if
i barely even care if a a language or a
library or whatever
says that it only accepts utf-8
my reaction to that is cool story bro i
don't believe you
tell me what you do when you encounter
other bytes
and you have to go look at the code and
see what that is because
documentation rarely says it is my
experience so far of looking at this
so for example i discovered i strolled
through a bunch of different string
escaping functions and going
and we don't have to hold these to
perfect standards just because i program
go i don't expect anyone else to care
but what i've found is for example the
strain escaping function
for json in the golang standard library
if it encounters any bytes that are not
utf-8
sequences it will throw them away
it will completely disregard whatever
the content is
why would i why would i preserve data
and instead it will
escape slash u
f f f d which is the uh
character in unicode
but it throws the original bytes away
yeah so javascript has this thing where
you can
you can force a bunch of ill-form bytes
into the string
and they will round trip in certain
places in the platform and not in others
um so if you try to like concatenate
strings if you try to like actually get
string representations they get shed
but if you store them in index database
they will come back with all the
fidelity that you've shoved into them
so one thing that people do actually is
that they have special
compression libraries in javascript that
compress
into ill-form strings and because
they're they can get stored and
round-trip by an index database
but yeah but if you do other things with
them then they break like i was trying
to use that compression library once for
some stuff
in in our stuff and it it was not round
tripping
and i was like why is this breaking and
like yeah that's why because it's
an ill form string
all right um i saw that johnny joined do
you have any
do you want to share something yes i was
lurking on the youtube channel and so i
think this is
apropos to what i'm struggling with in
the did specification
and lossless conversion between json and
cbor and we're settling on an abstract
data model
the one that which is just abstract
which is to hand wavy for me
i've been proposing um cddl for a while
so that's concise data definition
language and
um jason being a subset of cbor
as long as there you have some rules in
place then actually there is lossless
conversion
and uh he did the uh the uh
rfc 7049 the cbor specification actually
talks about this and i think certainly
ipld actually conforms mostly
to this but the uh the cddl i
think here it is yeah rfc
8610 so if you restrict
uh things like uh integers uh have to be
uh 64 bits represented even with
integral
values that that you have a constraint
set
that is losslessly compatible with json
and so the same thing with the
json string says utf-8 um
the slash u and other things are a
little bit
nuanced that i don't understand but i
think
what i'm settling on is trying to say
that the abstract data model is
constrained
to using cddl as to describe the
abstract data model even though it's
kind of like
more syntax but also somewhat classes
and types and uh
i'm pitching it tomorrow and and trying
to get some some feedback on it
unfortunately
this the seabor guy uh jim shad just
died over the weekend and he was
supposed to be giving me some uh some
feedback for
my sibor explanation and and uh i i
don't know what happened
he was i was waiting for feedback and
then i just heard from another colleague
that he died
which sucks
i wonder if it was something like covent
or something like that he was really sad
yeah no idea he actually owned a winery
so actually like he was retired or
from microsoft and he was basically
doing seabor stuff and
ietf stuff like just for a hobby and he
was running a winery in oregon
and so i don't know what what happened
but it just uh
sad news came through my news feed this
morning and just
really shocked me and now it explains
why i haven't heard from them
but i i so cd dl i think again like i
mentioned this last week was
like similar to how you do is at context
for jason ld
it's like you know if you constrain your
schema with a data definition
and that in that sense json is a subset
of cbor and you constrain the data
types to those schemas defined in
in seated dl then there is lossless
conversion like cddl actually
facilitates that
but as soon as you get into like uh uh
oh geez i
i um ieee 754 for representing
numbers and trying to do conversion
between that
and 64-bit or 32-bit conversions and
it gets it explodes really quickly
i think i would offer that the the idea
of
clearly specifying specific domains
for this feature like in the sense of a
function has the domain of the inputs
and range of the outputs right
if you specify narrow domains where you
know things will work
and in that sub domain then
there's a bijection between your domain
and your range
then you're good you can use cddl as a
syntax for describing those domain
restrictions if you want
i'm indifferent to that i think if you
wanted to make your proposal
not depend on another spec of that
complexity then
you could probably just use more simple
language around
domain constraints and probably get away
with it
um i don't know how complex of a thing
you're specifying
so i don't really know how feasible that
suggestion is but like that would be
something you can try to if you get
pushed back on that
but in general constrain things yeah
yeah
so relatively it's actually just
straightforward or um
key value pairs mostly with strings and
so a lot of it is like trying to get jwk
um keys represented properly and
explicitly state the syntax for
representing a jwk let's say you know
ed25519
and rsa and uh section five six k one et
cetera
and so and i think i and what jim had
mentioned to me before was
that like just do it in json like don't
try to
do binary with tag 23
with expected um encoding to base 64.
it's like just keep it in json it's it's
humor friendly you get some compaction
about 25
just converting it to cbor mostly
because you're not dealing with any of
the
strings in json and so i think it's it's
cleaner and
you there is overlap with the data model
in
jason and and and seabor
and then more complicated stuff you just
constrain like you know numbers have
like just like in the sibor spec in
which which i think uh
ipld conforms to is that there is
just more the most simple representation
wins so the base like everything is base
64.
um bit 64-bit numbers don't try to do
uh ieee 754 and uh
in which case you just have one way to
represent numbers and that basically
then
and they said most mostly we're not
trying to boil the ocean
like just keep it simple and and i think
then everything will work
out just fine
[Laughter]
there's overlap there with a topic that
we've also got going which is the
float format in seymour for taxi
trying to unify our codex
um with do we do small as possible or
just choose 64 bit yeah and then this
gets i
so if you guys actually do to get a
chance if you could read the what i
wrote in the specification to make sure
i'm conforming because i wrote a bunch
of stuff
i don't know how accurate i am to
actually what that dag c board actually
does i know dexy board does most of that
but um yeah okay will you get a link for
that
yeah yeah just on the note on the on on
the numbers when
we don't we're not consistent which is
the problem that we need to resolve
um so our spec set see what we try and
do
is say we've said we do strict seabor
and we follow the guidelines in the
seabor specification for what that means
to be strict
so that's where we say strictness okay
we'll take their version of strictness
and do that
and most across our main codex we do
that like
javascript and go we do that it's just
that the numbers we don't
so in go we do 64-bit and in javascript
we do small as possible
this makes specs as small as possible
um and so the question has been do we
conform go to that or do we conform
javascript to our own version of script
strictness and the discussion yesterday
i think it was
volca um also bringing this up that um
maybe 64-bit is the way to go um
than the wish because i like that i like
64-bit because it's simple
it means you don't because when you do
small it's possible you have to
try and then fail try fail these two
different
like 16 bit then 32 bit and then fall
back to 64 bit so it's
it's intensive it's not simple um
there's no simple algorithm it's
not that difficult like it's just two
bit maps if you like to
because i do it into it so you can do a
bitmap check like you could
can basically do do a do a mask over
like
over the raw bytes a bits of the like
the bit mask over the
float bytes and can determine whether it
can be converted or not
i think i think that's right though
because because you've got different
lengths of mantissa
and you can't like for each of the
different formats
you've got a different number of bits
that make up the two portions
so you can't just say it's
definitely too busy you have to check it
for each
smaller version so basically if you have
a 64-bit you have to check
is it 32-bit is it 16-bit
um yeah you have to do that um
but you could also basically start with
is it
so you can directly check is the 64-bit
thing like the does it fit into
16-bit and if it doesn't check for it
does it fit into
32-bit and yeah so i think i think it's
possible so i haven't implemented it but
from like
what i looked up so so if you want to
read my notes about it i can
post you the notes about it right i mean
we do it in java we do it in javascript
but it means doing an encode and then a
decode to check if it
fit and then if it fails you go up to
the next sizing code and then decode
and then if that doesn't work you go to
64 bit so we do it fine in javascript
javascript works
fine and it follows the spec the siebel
spec strictness
recommendations that we have in our
dioxin or dock
in go it's just just throw this thing at
64 bit
um now i'd like i'd really like to unify
this and fix it
but it's still unclear to me which one
we should choose because
i you know on one hand i just think
64-bit is just the easiest just choose
64-bit
and treat everything at 64-bit like that
would be the cleanest
but but the problem we have is that
because the spec says
the strictness should be this then it's
easier to find implementations that do
this for example if we
then go and say okay we've got to fix
this in javascript we have to go back
into the javascript encoder and and fix
it there which
you know it's not and then and then and
then everyone that wants to
implement this in their own language
would then have to go and
um implement this manually because they
can't just pull a strict seaboard parser
off the shelf and use that
um yes but i think like i think we
so there was i think the float stuff is
not part
of the can monica
see i think it's part of the tradition
i think it's part of the json placebo no
it's part of canonical in the spec as
small as possible
okay yeah i i yeah okay then yeah
but but i think it also says you should
pick like it's just an example of
how you what you could do but that's
right but that
that whole section in the spec is
example it's a you should you should do
canonical and here's some ideas
but then every implementation that does
yes
this is how we do strictness so that
makes it easier
um which is nice if we can just
piggyback that
yeah but it's not yeah so anyway but
i'd like to resolve that soon and it
either means going and doing go which is
potentially easier because
eric owns that code and that's easy to
fix
the javascript one's a little bit more
complicated because even now there's a
stalled pull request on
getting that change from buffer to utf-8
now sorry no you um you win eight arrays
like that i think even just modifying
that thing
has become complicated but um
i don't know anyway this is complicated
area and johnny i i don't think we can
help you on floats
yeah so mostly i mostly copy and pasted
what was in in the spec for a canonical
seaboard but there's a there's an
updated draft
that the author has written which i
think is still draft and ietf which
basically i think
extends it and i think and it gives
additional guidance
but mostly i need to go through and just
test to make sure that there is lossless
conversion round-tripping it and it's
but mostly it's upfront
constraints on what how to represent it
and
those constraints are explicit in the
cddl method
method to actually to get lossless
between jason and
and then trying to leverage like you
know things like uh keys must be
uh strings and specifically in seabor
they must be byte arrays and json they
could be
strings and so um but it's funny because
we don't have any numbers that we're
trying to represent
yet and so like this is all conjecture
and i think it's
so like trying to get to this abstract
data model and boil the ocean
without even this being a problem yet
and but this is the nature of that what
the iatf's about
yeah yeah yeah it's exactly it's a
painful process of
uh futility and uh which
juan warned me about so
given my exploration
report i would expect that we hopefully
agree on
just using 64-bit floats so just as an
like
likely outcome like we might still
decide otherwise but i guess i'm also
leaning towards just using 64-bit and be
done
um
that's difficult
so before five minutes ago i thought
that used the smallest encoding was what
the civil war spec
said in no uncertain terms and therefore
i was sort of on
that side despite having written code
that does the simple thing with 64
myself
we were talking about this um
you're you're right whoever said this
part of the seabor spec is all examples
i didn't remember how
this part of respect is yeah it says
if a protocol if a protocol
allows for ieee floats it's hilarious
then additional chemicalization rules
might
need to be added such as
yeah and then it's all examples after
that there's no pseudo code there's no
fixtures there's no
no yeah but but
without any other guidance everyone's
just taken that which is fair enough
it just they just should have gone a bit
further and said well okay here's
canonical like this is how you implement
canonical
but they didn't and so everyone's just
taken it as it is
so yeah i was going to reach out to uh
borman who's the author of this he's uh
i think in uh germany uh at the
university and just get some feedback
about this uh for the my specific uh
protocol
to make sure that actually i'm
conforming to it in the absence of jim
who died
i think he'll have some sympathy for me
i hope right looking for some
wisdom um i i had some email
exchange with him to get the the tag 42
reserved for ipld and moved things out
of bounds so he was really like like
easy to talk to and like yeah super nice
person so yeah
that's super approachable and yes
i think like the this making the
smallest float possible i think
is needed for if you want to have
canonical
cyborg but still support all floating
point types then you need it
but if we say in dag cbo we only have
64 floats in seaborn
then our canonical replication is good
enough for being con
on equal basically
just means picking one way that round
trips cleanly that's that's all it is
actually pick a consistent way yeah
speaker cons
this is way but but if you want to have
the support for let's say it's 32-bit
floats
um and you but the same thing applies
we could we could do 64-bit integers um
and then in the language land you have
to
it's like what eric's doing with
apld-prime you don't he's doing the data
model
and it's just one type of number uh and
so when you get to the sequal level you
just encode with whatever it has to do
and if it
if we said in cbore that you only had
64-bit integers
that would work too it just means that
on a language level we have to deal with
it in whatever way it makes sense
the data model says numbers integers it
doesn't say what size and so you just
use whatever size is appropriate for
your
thing and usually that should be i would
say that should be biggest possible
in your language although rust they
could kind of get big don't they
128 yeah but only like kind of like like
you can use it but normally you use
34. yeah it's 54 sorry
yeah you could use
128 but you won't
the number thing makes sense because
sorry the integer thing makes sense
because
it's so easy to check because you have
to still bet and
boundaries check but with the floats
because you've got different size
mantissas for each representation
it's just it just gets complicated and
and you can get right the same number by
doing the different encodings that's
just it's just crazy
for what it's worth it has now easily
swayed too
simple is correct and always do 64-bit
floats
because it does not it does not directly
fight the severe spec and it is
the simplicity arguments are swinging me
it has that it has the benefit of being
the thing that you would do anyway
if you were just trying to get it done
which makes it much more resilient
so one does it yeah
yeah yeah but like i i wish that the
rest of the canonical seymour stuck was
that way and
didn't have all these like complex rules
about
variations that people are going to get
wrong
like just going to
all right especially if there's no
penalty for getting a run like if it'll
still decode and you get it wrong
it's you're fine seems like nobody cares
except for us
well i'm trying to get it right because
they're trying to finalize and get this
into
candidate recommendation and so i wanted
to make sure actually i get it right and
i need to do a bunch of test cases but
um to make sure that what i wrote fits
what i put in the chat is the updated
draft what borman wrote
about the additional considerations for
deterministically
canonicalized cyborg um so there's some
additional things
to consider cool oh here's another
argument
in favor of just doing 64-bit i'm going
to i'm going to paste this um
this thing in this is the javascript
this is how it
does the smallest possible which is just
crazy
the the other argument in favor of of
going with just 64-bit
is that most many modern languages don't
even include a 16-bit float encoding
type and so they has to be written
so you can do single precision and
double precision but you can't do half
precision in a lot of languages
so like in javascript you have to
implement your own half precision
encoder
just to get half precision floats which
you know
like you're dealing with you're writing
out the float format manually
at that point and so not only is it
complicated
algorithmically to do this to get the
encoding right you have to for the
smallest one
you have to write your own manual
encoder so
not good it works like you can make it
work it's this is not
about whether or not you can make it
work it's just this is a
complex path and and if if you're
working with a seaborn encoder that
already has strictness like a lot of
them do
then it becomes easy but we're getting
to the point now where we're starting to
say
you really should probably be
implementing your own seaboard parser if
you're going to be doing taxi ball
so yeah i mean so we've had to stay for
a while and that's why it's like just
not
it's not the best it's i mean it's the
situation that we're in we're gonna have
to document it and we're gonna have to
like say all the things we're not
super facing war isn't going away but
yeah there's there's like a limit to
what we can do here and what we can
potentially recommend
all right we've hit the hour of the
meeting
so um thanks everyone for attending
and see you all again next week goodbye
[Music]
everyone